Version from: February 2020

Grafana
=======

Grafana Intro
-------------

Grafana is used to visualize data. As usual you have to learn the Grafana specific language. They call a webpage with graphical elements a dashboard. The structure of the dashboard is similar to the structure of web pages using tables. The tables consist of cells called "panel" in Grafana jargon. Different types of graphics (i.e. line graphs, tables, single stat boxes, lists of alerts, pie charts etc.) can be positioned within a cell. One graphic is displayed per cell.

For the beginner it is completely unintuitive that he has to click on the title of a panel to edit the panel. But it is one of the most positive qualities of the human species that it can adapt to almost anything. Not that this is desirable to adapt to unintuitive programming requirements. But at least it helps to survive the sometimes very twisted logic of programmers. For example, the programmers at Grafana give the obvious symbol of a floppy disk the tool tip note, "Save dashboard". Unfortunately, they do not provide this help for the other symbols. When you hover your mouse over the title, you will see a "pointing finger" icon, but this does not suggest that you need to click on the title to edit the panel.

Important settings are hidden behind the Grafana logo in the upper left corner of the website. Finding this option also took me a while. Please also note the three very suttle vertical dots in the upper left corner of a panel. A click on them opens up further setting options.

But you get used to it, and then you can present your data very appealingly with relatively little effort. So it's worth the effort to fight your way through the initial frustration.


Install Grafana on Debian Buster
---------------------------------
from: https://computingforgeeks.com/how-to-install-grafana-6-on-ubuntu-18-04

### Helpful links:

* https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/debian/
* https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/configuration/

Grafana is not contained in the Debian standard repositories. Therefore we have to add a repository provided by the Grafana developers (for details see: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/debian/).

Although we have done this several times in the meantime, I mention the following lines again for the sake of completeness. 

### Update system

	sudo apt-get update
	sudo apt-get upgrade
	sudo reboot

### Add Grafana APT repository

Add Grafana gpg key which allows you to install signed packages.

	sudo apt-get install -y gnupg2 curl
	curl https://packages.grafana.com/gpg.key | sudo apt-key add -

Then install Grafana APT repository:

	sudo add-apt-repository "deb https://packages.grafana.com/oss/deb stable main"

Once the repository is added, proceed to update your Apt repositories and install Grafana

	sudo apt-get update
	sudo apt-get install grafana

Start the Grafana service and check its status:

	sudo systemctl start grafana-server
    sudo systemctl status grafana-server
   	sudo systemctl enable grafana-server


Or:

    sudo service grafana-server start
    sudo service grafana-server status


Access Grafana on Debian / Ubuntu
----------------------------------

Once the service has been started, you can access its entry webpage by visiting the server IP on port 3000.

If you have an active firewall, for example ufw, allow port 3000 on the firewall.

	sudo ufw allow proto tcp from any to any port 3000

You can check the opened ports on the system.

    sudo netstat -plntu


Next open your browser and enter server IP address and port 3000.

Default logins are:

	Username: admin
	Password: admin

Change the login credentials immediately after authenticating.



Make Grafana display your data
==============================

In the beginning, Grafana is totally non-intuitive to use. Therefore, believe me: RTFM first!

### Helpful links:

* https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/guides/basic_concepts/
* https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/guides/getting_started/
* https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/features/datasources/influxdb/




Testing the Connection Between InfluxDB, Mosquitto, and Telegraf
================================================================

We have configured all the components. To test if the connections are working let us start all the components if they aren't already running. 

## Mosquitto:

    mosquitto_sub -h name.of.your.server -t 'sensors'

    mosquitto_pub -h name.of.your.server -p 1883 -t 'your-topic' -m 'name-of-influx-database,tag1=string1,sensor=DS18B20 temp=28'


## Telegraf

For 'data_format = "influx"' the data must be sent in a certain format via MQTT.

Example

	telemetrie,qth=JM3AB,sensor=DS18B20 temperature=28

## InfluxDB

Open a terminal and use the command line syntax to display the latest data.

* https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v1.7/tools/shell/

Example

	use sensors
	SELECT * FROM "sensors" WHERE time > now() - 1h


## Creating the Dashboard Using Grafana

The last step is creating a webpage which displays one or more diagrams with your data. Grafana helps you a lot as soon as you have understood their vocabulary. They call the webpage with the diagrams a "dashboard". The first thing is connecting to the web interface of Grafana using this link:

	http://<URL-of-your-Grafana-server>:3000

Now, follow these steps:

- Login to Grafana using (admin/admin)
- Configure the data source selecting for example InfluxDB
- Create your "dashboard" with graphs as you prefer


